(Bugles blaring, drums beating)
As by your high imperialmajesty
I had in charge at mydepart for France,
As procurator to yourexcellence,
To marry Princess Margaretfor your grace,
So, in the famous ancientcity, Tours,
In presence of the Kingsof France and Sicil,
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber,Bretagne and Alencon,
Seven earls, twelve baronsand twenty reverend bishops,
I have perform'd my taskand was espoused:
And humbly now upon mybended knee,
In sight of England andher lordly peers,
Deliver up my title in thequeen
To your most gracious hands,
that are the substance
Of that great shadowI did represent;
The happiest gift thatever marquess gave,
The fairest queen that everking received. Suffolk, arise.
Welcome, Queen Margaret:
I can express no kindersign of love
Than this kind kiss. OLord, that lends me life,
Lend me a heart repletewith thankfulness!
For thou hast given me inthis beauteous face
A world of earthlyblessings to my soul,
If sympathy of love uniteour thoughts.
Great King of England andmy gracious lord,
The mutual conference thatmy mind hath had,
By day, by night, wakingand in my dreams,
In courtly company or atmy beads,
With you, minealder-liefest sovereign,
Makes me the bolder tosalute my king
With ruder terms, such asmy wit affords
And over-joy of heart dothminister.
Her sight did ravish; buther grace in speech,
Her words y-clad withwisdom's majesty,
Makes me from wonderingfall to weeping joys;
Such is the fulness of myheart's content.
Lords, with one cheerfulvoice welcome my love.
Long live Queen Margaret,England's happiness!
We thank you all.
My lord protector, so itplease your grace,
Here are the articles ofcontracted peace
between our sovereign andthe French king Charles,
For eighteen monthsconcluded by consent.
'Imprimis, it is agreed
between the Frenchking Charles,
and William de la Pole,Marquess of Suffolk,
ambassador for HenryKing of England,
that the said Henry shallespouse the Lady Margaret,
daughter unto Reignier King ofNaples, Sicilia and Jerusalem,
and crown her Queen of England
ere the thirtieth ofMay next ensuing.
Item, that is further agreedthat the duchy of Anjou
and the county of Maineshall be released
and delivered to the kingher father'--
Uncle, how now!
Pardon me, gracious lord;
Some sudden qualm hathstruck me at the heart
And dimm'd mine eyes, thatI can read no more.
Uncle of Winchester, Ipray, read on.
'Item, It is furtheragreed between them,
that the duchies of Anjouand the county of Maine
shall be released and deliveredto the king her father,
and she sent over
of the King of England's ownproper cost and charges,
without having any dowry.'
They please us well. Lordmarquess, kneel down:
We here create thee thefirst duke of Suffolk,
And gird thee with thesword. Cousin of York,
We here discharge your grace
from being regent I'the parts of France,
till term of eighteenmonths be full expired.
Thanks, uncle Winchester,
Gloucester, York,Buckingham, Somerset,
Salisbury, and Warwick;
We thank you all for thegreat favour done,
In entertainment to myprincely queen.
Come, let us in,and with all speed
provide to see hercoronation be perform'd.
(Bugle blaring)
Brave peers of England,pillars of the state,
To you Duke Humphrey mustunload his grief,
Your grief, the commongrief of all the land.
What! did my brother Henryspend his youth,
His valour, coin andpeople, in the wars?
Did he so often lodge inopen field,
In winter's cold andsummer's parching heat,
To conquer France, histrue inheritance?
Have you yourselves,Somerset, Buckingham,
Brave York, Salisbury, andvictorious Warwick,
Received deep scars inFrance and Normandy?
Or hath mine uncleBeaufort and myself,
With all the learnedcouncil of the realm,
Studied so long,
sat in the council-house Earlyand late, debating to and fro
How France and Frenchmenmight be kept in awe,
And shall these laboursand these honours die?
O peers of England,shameful is this league!
Fatal this marriage,cancelling your fame,
Blotting your names frombooks of memory,
Razing the characters ofyour renown,
Defacing monuments ofconquer'd France,
Undoing all, as all hadnever been!
Nephew, what means thispassionate discourse,
This peroration with suchcircumstance?
For France, 'tis ours; andwe will keep it still.
Ay, we will keepit, if we can;
But now it is impossiblewe should:
Suffolk, the new-made dukethat rules the roast,
Hath given the duchy ofAnjou and Maine
Unto the poor King Reignier,
whose large style Agrees notwith the leanness of his purse.
By the death of Himthat died for all,
These counties were thekeys of Normandy.
(Crying)
But wherefore weepsWarwick, my valiant son?
For grief that they arepast recovery:
For, were there hope toconquer them again,
My sword should shed hotblood, mine eyes no tears.
Anjou and Maine! myselfdid win them both;
Those provinces these armsof mine did conquer:
And are the cities, that Igot with wounds,
Delivered up again withpeaceful words?
Mort Dieu!
For Suffolk's duke, may hebe suffocate,
That dims the honour ofthis warlike isle!
France should have tornand rent my very heart,
Before I would haveyielded to this league.
I never read butEngland's kings
have had Large sums of goldand dowries with their wives:
And our King Henrygives away his own,
To match with her thatbrings no vantages.
She should have stayed inFrance and starved
in France.
My Lord of Gloucester, nowye grow too hot:
It was the pleasure of mylord the King.
My Lord of Winchester, Iknow your mind;
'Tis not my speeches thatyou do mislike,
But 'tis my presence thatdoth trouble ye.
Rancour will out:proud prelate,
in thy face I see thyfury: if I longer stay,
We shall begin our ancientbickerings.
Lordings, farewell; andsay, when I am gone,
I prophesied France willbe lost ere long.
So, there goes ourprotector in a rage.
'Tis known to you he ismine enemy,
Nay, more, an enemy untoyou all,
And no great friend, Ifear me, to the king.
Consider, lords, he is thenext of blood,
And heir apparent to theEnglish crown:
Had Henry got an empire byhis marriage,
With all the wealthykingdoms of the west,
There's reason he shouldbe displeased at it.
Look to it, lords!
let not his smoothing wordsbewitch your hearts;
be wise and circumspect.
What though the commonpeople favour him,
Calling him 'Humphrey, thegood Duke of Gloucester,'
Clapping their hands, andcrying with loud voice,
'Jesu maintain your royalexcellence!'
With 'God preserve thegood Duke Humphrey!'
I fear me, lords, for allthis flattering gloss,
He will be found adangerous protector.
Why should he, then,protect our sovereign,
He being of age to governof himself?
Cousin of Somerset, joinyou with me,
And all together, with theDuke of Suffolk,
We'll quickly hoise DukeHumphrey from his seat.
This weighty business willnot brook delay:
I'll to the Duke ofSuffolk presently.
Cousin of Buckingham,
though Humphrey's pride
and greatness of hisplace be grief to us,
Yet let us watch thehaughty cardinal:
His insolence is moreintolerable
Than all the princes inthe land beside:
If Gloucester be displaced,he'll be protector.
Or thou or I, Somerset,will be protector,
Despite Duke Humphrey orthe cardinal.
Pride went before,ambition follows him.
While these do labour fortheir own preferment,
Behoves it us to labourfor the realm.
I never saw but HumphreyDuke of Gloucester
Did bear him like a noblegentleman.
Oft have I seen thehaughty cardinal,
More like a soldier than aman o' the church,
As stout and proud as hewere lord of all,
Swear like a ruffian anddemean himself
Unlike the ruler of acommonweal.
Warwick, my son, thecomfort of my age,
Thy deeds, thy plainnessand thy housekeeping,
Hath won the greatestfavour of the commons,
Excepting none but goodDuke Humphrey:
And, cousin York, thyacts in Ireland,
In bringing them to civildiscipline,
Thy late exploits done inthe heart of France,
When thou wert regent forour sovereign,
Have made thee fear'd andhonour'd of the people:
The reverence of mineage and Nevelle's name
is of no littleforce if I command.
Join we together, for thepublic good,
In what we can, to bridleand suppress
The pride of Suffolk andthe cardinal,
With Somerset's andBuckingham's ambition;
And, as we may, cherishDuke Humphrey's deeds,
While they do tend theprofit of the land.
So God help Warwick, as heloves the land,
And common profit of hiscountry!
And so says York, for hehath greatest cause.
Then let's make haste away,and look unto the main.
Unto the main! O father,Maine is lost;
That Maine which by mainforce Warwick did win,
And would have kept solong as breath did last!
Main chance, father, youmeant; but I meant Maine,
Which I will win fromFrance, or else be slain,
Anjou and Maine are givento the French;
Paris is lost; the stateof Normandy
Stands on a tickle point,now they are gone:
Suffolk concluded on thearticles,
The peers agreed, and Henrywas well pleased to change
two dukedoms for aduke's fair daughter.
I cannot blame them all:what is't to them?
'Tis thine they give away,and not their own.
Pirates may make cheappennyworths of their pillage
And purchase friends andgive to courtezans,
Still revelling like lordstill all be gone;
While as the silly owner ofthe goods weeps over them
and wrings his hapless hands
And shakes his head andtrembling stands aloof,
While all is shared andall is borne away,
Ready to starve and darenot touch his own:
So York must sit and fretand bite his tongue,
While his own lands arebargain'd for and sold.
Anjou and Maine both givenunto the French!
Cold news for me, for Ihad hope of France,
Even as I have of fertileEngland's soil.
A day will come when Yorkshall claim his own;
And therefore I will takethe Nevils' parts
And make a show of love toproud Duke Humphrey,
And, when I spy advantage,claim the crown,
For that's the golden markI seek to hit:
Nor shall proud Lancasterusurp my right,
Nor hold the sceptre inhis childish fist,
Nor wear the diadem uponhis head,
Whose church-like humoursfits not for a crown.
Then, York, be stillawhile, till time do serve:
Watch thou and wake whenothers be asleep,
To pry into the secrets ofthe state;
Till Henry, surfeiting injoys of love,
With his new bride andEngland's dear-bought queen,
And Humphrey with thepeers be fall'n at jars:
Then will I raise aloftthe milk-white rose,
With whose sweet smell theair shall be perfumed;
And in my standard, bearthe arms of York
To grapple with the houseof Lancaster;
And, force perforce, I'llmake him yield the crown,
Whose bookish rule hathpull'd fair England down.
Why droops my lord, likeover-ripen'd corn,
Hanging the head at Ceres'plenteous load?
Why are thine eyes fixedto the sullen earth,
Gazing on that which seemsto dim thy sight?
What seest thou there?King Henry's diadem,
Enchased with all thehonours of the world?
If so, gaze on, and grovelon thy face,
Until thy head be circledwith the same.
Put forth thy hand, reachat the glorious gold.
What, is't too short? I'lllengthen it with mine:
And, having both togetherheaved it up,
We'll both together liftour heads to heaven,
And never more abase oursight so low
As to vouchsafe one glanceunto the ground.
O Nell, sweet Nell, ifthou dost love thy lord,
Banish the canker ofambitious thoughts.
And may that hour, when Iimagine ill against my king
and nephew, virtuous Henry,
Be my last breathing inthis mortal world!
My troublous dream thisnight doth make me sad.
What dream'd my lord? tellme, and I'll requite it
with sweet rehearsal ofmy morning's dream.
Methought this staff, mineoffice-badge in court,
Was broke in twain; bywhom I have forgot,
But, as I think, it was bythe cardinal;
And on the pieces of thebroken wand
Were placed the heads ofEdmund Duke of Somerset,
And William de la Pole,first duke of Suffolk.
This was my dream: what itdoth bode, God knows.
Tut, this was nothing butan argument
That he that breaks a stickof Gloucester's grove
Shall lose his head forhis presumption.
But list to me, myHumphrey, my sweet duke:
Methought I sat in seat ofmajesty
In the cathedral church ofWestminster,
And in that chair where kingsand queens are crown'd;
Where Henry and dameMargaret kneel'd to me
And on my head did set thediadem.
Art thou not second womanin the realm,
And the protector's wife,beloved of him?
Hast thou not worldlypleasure at command,
Above the reach or compassof thy thought?
And wilt thou still behammering treachery,
To tumble down thy husbandand thyself
From top of honour todisgrace's feet?
Away from me, and let mehear no more!
What, what, my lord! are youso choleric with Eleanor,
for telling but her dream?
Next time I'll keep mydreams unto myself,
And not be cheque'd.
Nay, be not angry; I ampleased again.
My lord protector,
'tis his highness'pleasure you do prepare
to ride unto Saint Alban's,
Where as the king andqueen do mean to hawk.
I go. Come, Nell, thouwilt ride with us?
Yes, my good lord, I'llfollow presently.
Follow I must; I cannot gobefore,
While Gloucester bearsthis base and humble mind.
Were I a man, a duke, andnext of blood,
I would remove thesetedious stumbling-blocks
And smooth my way upontheir headless necks;
And, being a woman, I willnot be slack
To play my part inFortune's pageant.
Where are you there? SirJohn! nay, fear not, man,
We are alone; here's nonebut thee and I.
Jesus preserve your royalmajesty!
What say'st thou? majesty!I am but grace.
But, by the grace of God,and Hume's advice,
Your grace's titles shallbe multiplied.
What say'st thou, man?
hast thou as yet conferr'dWith Margery Jourdain,
the witch of I,With Bolingbroke,
the cunning conjurer? And willthey undertake to do me good?
This they have promised me,to show your highness
A spirit raised from depthof under-ground,
That shall make answer tosuch questions
As by your grace shall bepropounded him.
It is enough; I'll thinkupon the questions:
When from St. Alban's wedo make return,
We'll see these thingseffected to the full.
Here, Hume, take thisreward; make merry, man,
With thy confederates inthis weighty cause.
Hume must make merry withthe duchess' gold;
(Laughing)
Marry, and shall. But hownow, Sir John Hume!
Seal up your lips, andgive no words but mum:
The business asketh silentsecrecy.
Dame Eleanor gives gold tobring the witch:
Gold cannot come amiss,were she a devil.
Yet have I gold flies fromanother coast;
I dare not say, from therich cardinal
And from the great andnew-made Duke of Suffolk,
Yet I do find it so; forto be plain,
They, knowing DameEleanor's aspiring humour,
Have hired me to underminethe duchess
And buz these conjurationsin her brain.
They say 'A crafty knavedoes need no broker;'
Yet am I Suffolk and thecardinal's broker.
Hume, if you take not heed,
you shall go nearto call them both
a pair of crafty knaves.
Well, so it stands;and thus, I fear,
at last Hume's knavery willbe the duchess' wreck,
And her attainture will beHumphrey's fall:
Sort how it will, I willhave gold for all.
(Laughing)
My masters, let's stand close:
my lord protector willcome this way by and by,
and then we may deliver oursupplications in the quill.
Marry, the Lord protecthim, for he's a good man!
Jesu bless him!
Here a' comes, methinks,and the queen with him.
I'll be the first, sure.
Come back, fool; this isthe Duke of Suffolk,
and not my lord protector.
How now, fellow! would'stanything with me?
Pardon me my lord; I tookye for my lord protector.
'To my Lord Protector!' Are yoursupplications to his lordship?
Let me see them:
what is thine?
Pardon me maam. Mine is,an't please your grace,
against John Goodman, mylord cardinal's man,
for keeping my house, and lands,and wife and all, from me.
Thy wife, too! that'ssome wrong, indeed.
What's yours? What's here!
'Against the Duke ofSuffolk, for enclosing the
commons of Long Melford.' Hownow, sir knave!
Alas, sir,
I am but a poor petitionerof our whole township.
Against my master,Thomas Horner,
for saying that the Dukeof York was rightful
heir to the crown.
What sayst thou? did the Dukeof York say he was rightful
heir to the crown?
That my master was? no,forsooth: my master said
that he was, and that theking was an userer.
A usurper, thou would'st say.
Ay usurper user
Who is there?
Take this fellow in,
and send for his master witha presently: we'll hear
more of your matter beforethe King.
And as for you, that loveto be protected
Under the wings of ourprotector's grace,
Begin your suits anew, andsue to him.
Away, base cullions!Suffolk, let him go.
Come, let's be gone.
My Lord of Suffolk, say,is this the guise,
Is this the fashion in thecourt of England?
Is this the government ofBritain's isle,
And this the royalty ofAlbion's king?
What shall King Henry be apupil still
Under the surlyGloucester's governance?
Am I a queen in title andin style,
And must be made a subjectto a duke?
I tell thee, Pole, when inthe city Tours
Thou ran'st a tilt inhonour of my love
And stolest away theladies' hearts of France,
I thought King Henry hadresembled thee in courage,
courtship and proportion:
But all his mind isbent to holiness,
To number Ave-Maries onhis beads;
His champions are theprophets and apostles,
His weapons holy saws ofsacred writ,
His study is histilt-yard, and his loves
Are brazen images ofcanonized saints.
I would the college of thecardinals
Would choose him pope, andcarry him to Rome,
And set the triple crownupon his head:
That were a state fit forhis holiness.
Madam, be patient: as Iwas cause
Your highness came to England,
so will I In England workyour grace's full content.
Beside the haughty protector,have we Beaufort,
The imperious churchman,Somerset, Buckingham,
And grumbling York: andnot the least of these
But can do more in Englandthan the king.
And he of these that cando most of all
Cannot do more in Englandthan the Nevils:
Salisbury and Warwick areno simple peers.
Not all these lords do vexme half so much
As that proud dame, thelord protector's wife.
She sweeps it through thecourt with troops of ladies,
More like an empress thanDuke Humphrey's wife:
Strangers in court do takeher for the queen:
She bears a duke'srevenues on her back,
And in her heart shescorns our poverty:
Shall I not live to beavenged on her?
Contemptuous base-borncallet as she is,
She vaunted 'mongst herminions t'other day,
The very train of herworst wearing gown
Was better worth than allmy father's lands,
Till Suffolk gave twodukedoms for his daughter.
Madam, myself have limed abush for her,
And placed a quire of suchenticing birds,
That she will light tolisten to the lays,
And never mount to troubleyou again.
So, let her rest: and,madam, list to me;
For I am bold to counselyou in this.
Although we fancy not thecardinal,
Yet must we join with himand with the lords,
Till we have brought DukeHumphrey in disgrace.
As for the Duke of York,this late complaint
Will make but little forhis benefit.
So, one by one, we'll weedthem all at last,
And you yourself shallsteer the happy helm.
For my part, noble lords,I care not which;
Or Somerset or York, all'sone to me.
(Bugles play)
If York have ill demean'dhimself in France,
Then let him be denay'dthe regentship.
If Somerset be unworthy ofthe place,
Let York be regent; I willyield to him.
Whether your grace beworthy, yea or no,
Dispute not that: York isthe worthier.
Ambitious Warwick, let thybetters speak.
The cardinal's not mybetter in the field.
All in this presence arethy betters, Warwick.
Warwick may live to be thebest of all.
Peace, son! and show somereason, Buckingham,
Why Somerset should bepreferred in this.
Because the king,forsooth, will have it so.
Madam, the king is old enoughhimself to give his censure:
these are no women's matters.
If he be old enough,what needs your grace
To be protector of hisexcellence?
Madam, I am protector ofthe realm;
And, at his pleasure, willresign my place.
Resign it then and leavethine insolence.
Since thou wert king--aswho is king but thou?--
The commonwealth hathdaily run to wreck;
The Dauphin hath prevail'dbeyond the seas;
And all the peers andnobles of the realm
Have been as bondmen tothy sovereignty.
The commons hast thou rack'd;
the clergy's bags Are lank andlean with thy extortions.
Thy sumptuous buildingsand thy wife's attire
Have cost a mass of publictreasury.
Thy cruelty in execution
Upon offenders, hathexceeded law,
And left thee to the mercyof the law.
They sale of offices andtowns in France,
If they were known, as thesuspect is great,
Would make thee quicklyhop without thy head.
Give me my fan: what,minion! can ye not?
I cry you mercy, madam;was it you?
Was't I! yea, I it was,proud Frenchwoman:
Could I come near yourbeauty with my nails,
I'd set my tencommandments in your face.
Sweet aunt, be quiet;'twas against her will.
Against her will! goodking, look to't in time;
She'll hamper thee, anddandle thee like a baby:
Though in this place mostmaster wear no breeches,
She shall not strike DameEleanor unrevenged.
Lord cardinal, I willfollow Eleanor,
And listen after Humphrey,how he proceeds:
She's tickled now; herfury needs no spurs,
She'll gallop far enoughto her destruction.
Now, lords, my cholerbeing over-blown
With walking once aboutthe quadrangle,
I come to talk ofcommonwealth affairs.
As for your spiteful falseobjections,
Prove them, and I lie opento the law:
But God in mercy so dealwith my soul,
As I in duty love my kingand country!
But, to the matter that wehave in hand:
I say, my sovereign, Yorkis meetest man
To be your regent in therealm of France.
Before we make election,
give me leave to show somereason, of no little force,
That York is most unmeetof any man.
I'll tell thee, Suffolk,why I am unmeet:
First, for I cannotflatter thee in pride;
Next, if I be appointedfor the place,
My Lord of Somerset willkeep me here,
Without discharge, money,or furniture,
Till France be won intothe Dauphin's hands:
Last time, I dancedattendance on his will
Till Paris was besieged,famish'd, and lost.
That can I witness; and afouler fact
Did never traitor in theland commit.
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
Image of pride, why shouldI hold my peace?
Because here is a manaccused of treason:
Pray God the Duke of Yorkexcuse himself!
Doth any one accuse Yorkfor a traitor?
What mean'st thou, Suffolk;tell me, what are these?
Please it your majesty,this is the man
That doth accuse hismaster of high treason:
His words were these: thatRichard, Duke of York,
Was rightful heir unto theEnglish crown
And that your majesty wasa usurper.
Say, man, were these thywords?
An't shall please your majesty,
I never said nor thoughtany such matter:
God is my witness, I am falselyaccused by the villain.
By these ten bones, my lords,he did speak them to me
in the garret one night,as we were scouring my
Lord of York's armour.
Base dunghill villain andmechanical,
I'll have thy head forthis thy traitor's speech.
I do beseech your royalmajesty,
Let him have all the rigorof the law.
Alas, my lord, hang me, ifever I spake the words.
My accuser is my 'prentice;and when I did correct
him for his fault the otherday, he did vow upon his knees
he would be even with me: Ihave good witness of this:
therefore I beseechyour majesty,
do not cast away an honest manfor a villain's accusation.
Uncle, what shall wesay to this in law?
This doom, my lord, if Imay judge my case:
Let Somerset be regentover the French,
Because in York thisbreeds suspicion:
And let these have a dayappointed them
For single combat inconvenient place,
For he hath witness of hisservant's malice:
This is the law, and thisDuke Humphrey's doom.
I humbly thank your royalmajesty.
And I accept the combatwillingly.
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight;for God's sake, pity my case.
The spite of manprevaileth against me.
O Lord, have mercy upon me!
I shall never be able to fighta blow. O Lord, my heart!
Sirrah, or you must fight,or else be hang'd.
Away with them to prison;and the day of combat
shall be the lastof the next month.
Come, Somerset, we'llsee thee sent away.
(Cymbals clanging)
Come master Bolingbroke;the duchess, I tell you,
expects performanceof your promises.
Master Hume, we aretherefore provided:
will her ladyship beholdand hear our exorcisms?
Ay, what else? fearyou not her courage.
I have heard her reported to be
a woman of anexceptional spirit:
but it shall be convenient,
Master Hume, that yoube by her aloft,
while we be busy below; and so,I pray you, go, in God's name,
and leave us.
Mother Jourdain,
be you prostrate and grovel onthe earth; John Southwell,
read you; and let us toour work.
Well said, my masters;
To this gear thesooner the better.
Patience, good lady;wizards know their times:
(drumming)
Deep night, dark night,the silent of the night,
The time of night whenTroy was set on fire;
The time when screech-owlscry and ban-dogs howl,
And spirits walk and ghostsbreak up their graves,
That time best fits thework we have in hand.
Madam, stay you and fearnot: whom we raise,
We will make fast within ahallow'd verge.
(chanting magic spell)
Adsum,
Asmath,
By the eternal God, whosename and power
Thou tremblest at, answerthat I shall ask;
For, till thou speak, thoushalt not pass from hence.
Ask what thou wilt. That Ihad said and done!
'First of the king: whatshall of him become?'
The duke yet lives thatHenry shall depose;
Yet him outlive, and die aviolent death.
Tell me 'What fate awaits theDuke of Suffolk?'
By water shall he die, andtake his end.
'What shall betide theDuke of Somerset?'
Let him shun castles;
Safer shall he be upon thesandy plains
Than where castles mountedstand.
Have done, for more Ihardly can endure.
Descend to darkness andthe burning lake!
False fiend, avoid!
Lay hands upon thesetraitors and their trash.
Beldam, I think we watch'dyou at an inch.
What, madam, are you there?the king and commonweal
Are deeply indebted forthis piece of pains:
My lord protector will, Idoubt it not,
See you well guerdon'd forthese good deserts.
Not half so bad as thineto England's king,
Injurious duke, thatthreatest where's no cause.
True, madam, none at all:what call you this?
Away with them! let thembe clapp'd up close.
And kept asunder. You,madam, shall with us.
take her to thee.
We'll see your trinketshere all forthcoming.
All, away!
Lord Buckingham, methinks,you watch'd her well:
A pretty plot, well chosento build upon!
Now, pray, my lord, let'ssee the devil's writ.
What have we here?
'The duke yet lives, thatHenry shall depose;
But him outlive, anddie a violent death.'
'Tell me what fate awaitsthe Duke of Suffolk?
By water shall he die, andtake his end.
What shall betide the Dukeof Somerset?
Let him shun castles;
Safer shall he be upon thesandy plains
Than where castles mountedstand.'
(Laughing) Come, come, my lords;
These oracles are hardlyattain'd,
And hardly understood.
The king is now in progresstowards Saint Alban's,
With him the husbandof this lovely lady:
Thither go these news, as fastas horse can carry them:
A sorry breakfast for mylord protector.
Your grace shall give meleave, my Lord of York,
To be the post, in hope ofhis reward.
At your pleasure, my good lord.
Within there, ho!
Invite my Lords ofSalisbury and Warwick
To sup with me to-morrownight. Away!